#Is Russia Starting to Fragment?

While looking at Telegram today, I came across this piece. It’s not the first; however, it does look like the old system of Druzhinia is back. What is this, you ask? In the medieval period, the nobles, the Boyars, were required to raise military units for the Tsar.

I know every nobleman in Europe was required to do that. Here, it looks like the governors are new high-ranking boyars. In Russia, they get selected by the federal government based on their loyalty to Vladimir Putin. So here is the post because it sounds familiar:

```
    Auction for cannon fodder. Regional payments for signing a contract with the Ministry of Defense set new records, offers are now limited in time

    The increase in payments when concluding a contract with the Ministry of Defense increasingly began to be provided by new “sponsors” — municipalities, the Ministry of Defense drew attention. In addition, a “seasonal” factor has appeared — now the most profitable offers are limited in time, which makes them similar to promotions in retail chains.

    Here is a list of leading regions in terms of the size of a lump sum payment upon conclusion of a contract (all amounts are indicated taking into account the federal payment of 195 thousand rubles).

    ▪️ Krasnodar — 1.645 million
    The record was set thanks to a city surcharge of 250 thousand rubles. It can be obtained upon concluding a contract at the Krasnodar military registration and enlistment offices from June 1 to October 1 . The region pays 1 million, another 200 thousand are given for service in registered Krasnodar units.

    ▪️ Karachay-Cherkessia — 1.5 million
    The regional payment in June was increased to 1.305 million rubles. Moreover, the region is one of the poorest in the country.

    ▪️ Tatarstan — 1.5 million
    The regional payment was increased to 1.05 million rubles. To receive it, you must conclude a contract before July 31 . Municipalities are ready to pay another 300 thousand.

    In total, since the beginning of the war, 51 Russian regions have introduced payments upon concluding a contract, and they have been increased several times.

    ️ The authorities lure Russians to war using other methods. They promise various payments (monthly, insurance), compensation for disability, banking benefits, labor guarantees, and educational privileges. But there were no queues in front of the military registration and enlistment offices. Putin and Medvedev claim that more than 670 thousand contract soldiers were recruited in 2023 and 24. However, even Z-bloggers don’t believe these numbers; they constantly write about the lack of people at the front, due to which the command sends under-treated soldiers on crutches to the front line (we wrote about this here ).
```

Here, more in-depth reporting via RUSI. Yes, the date is late 2022, but this is worsening. It also points to the demographics. However, it misses a critical aspect: the Red Army did not have these issues.

So here is the thing: As more governors raise troops, they are also responsible for equipping them. They are, more or less, responsible for supporting the families back home. When the soldier is declared KIA, they are also in charge of payments and funeral expenses.

They are not yet in charge of the troops’ daily pay and support in the field. That is still the job of the Ministry of Defense — the same ministry where bullets and food don’t have precedence over bribes and Dachas.

We knew it was heading that way in 2023. It’s just getting worse from a federal standpoint. Here is a story from then:

```

    The amendments that were announced by Member of the State Duma Andrei Kartapolov on the 25th of July will allow Russian governors to build their own private military companies.

    According to Karapolov, the military formations will be “specialised state unitary companies that on the decision of the Russian President can be established to protect public order.” They will also be used to “protect state borders in times of mobilisation, as well as in times of martial law and war,” Kartapolov explained.

    It is not clear how the new military formations will interact with Russia’s existing forces, among them the Armed Forces, the FSB and the National Guard (Rosgvardia).

    But the new regional units will be armed and allowed to use force. And they will “interact with the Interior Ministry, the FSB and Ministry of Defence to protect the state border, fight illegal armed groups and combat foreign sabotage and intelligence formations,” the Russian version of the Barents Observer reports.
	
```


This process is accelerating. Plus, oligarchs were told to create their own private military companies. This, to me, indicates that the process of dissolution may be underway. Here from France 24:

```

    The Kremlin has announced it may give legal status to some of the many private military companies (PMCs) active within Russia, notably the Wagner Group but also lesser-known militias like Convoy, Patriot, the Moran Security Group and Shchit (Shield).

    “Legally, the Wagner private military group does not exist and has never existed,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters, noting that the status of companies such as Wagner remains “rather complicated”.

    The declaration came a day after a similar statement made by Russian President Vladimir Putin to the “Kommersant” business daily. “The (Wagner) group is here, but it does not exist legally,” he said. Putin said its eventual legalisation was a question to be discussed in the Duma (the lower house) and within the government.

    And yet the number of private military companies active in Russia has continued to grow in recent years, boosted by the necessity of drafting soldiers to fight the war in Ukraine as well as the Kremlin’s willingness to make these shadow armies an instrument of Russian foreign policy.
```


Yes, they are an instrument of soft power. But they also have taken the use of violence out of the hands of the state. This is what dissolution may be starting to look like.

As always, I note the cracks in the ice. This one is a little more important than other cracks. Does this mean the Federation will fall apart in the next 24 hours? No. Keep watching the Caucasus and the Far East. The latter…China is likely salivating. Let’s say they have never accepted the Amur River border.
	
